Today I came to Tokyo Central Japanese Language School (TCJ).
We will do a demonstration of job interview in Japanese together with Ootsuka-sensei and Ogata-san.
If you want to find a job in Japan, you need to do a job interview. We will do a demontration and Ootsuka-sensei will explain the important points.
Please introduce yourself.
I am Philip Schmidt. Thank you very much for taking the time today.
I come from Germany, and I majored in Information Security at XX University.
After graduation, I worked as a systems engineer for a German IT company for five years.
In terms of specific responsibilities, I was part of a team that developed the payment processing system operated by our company, mainly focusing on the development of the backend system.
Thank you for your time today.
Please tell us your reasons for wanting to join our company.
I want to leverage my practical experience to further enhance my skills and contribute to the development of more advanced systems.
I applied to your company because I would like to learn new technologies and take on new challenges in a company that provides products using computer vision and AI technology, like yours.
Please provide a self-introduction while incorporating your previous experiences.
Payment processing is a highly mission-critical system,
and I have been able to develop it with high quality and advanced security by fully applying the knowledge and skills I have learned at university. As a result, we have maintained the provision of stable services to this day.
Do you have any questions for our company?
I understand that your company may have overseas branches. Is there a possibility of overseas relocation to one of those branches in the future?
This is all for today. Thank you very much.
About Interview Attire:
In interviews, wearing a suit is essential. Especially in job hunting, black plain suits are often preferred.
For men, it's recommended to purchase a black plain suit, a white Y-shirt, a black belt, black leather shoes, a black bag, and a tie.
When choosing the tie's color, selecting a color that matches your personality can leave a lasting impression. For example, red conveys an image of being proactive and motivated.
Blue suggests a calm and serious image, while yellow signifies a bright and communicative image.
However, avoid black (associated with funerals), white, and silver (associated with weddings) for interviews.
For women, a black plain suit, white Y-shirt, black pumps, stockings, and a black bag are recommended. If you opt for a pantsuit, it's advisable to buy a black belt.
Women's suits come in both skirt and pants styles, and both are acceptable. Pantsuits may be more suitable for those who wear suits during internships or have jobs that require physical activity.
Men should shave and have a well-groomed hairstyle. Women with long hair should tie it up.
About Interview Etiquette (Entering/Exiting, Seating, etc.):
When entering the room, knock on the door twice.
When invited to enter, say "Excuse me" and open the door with both hands.
Close the door with both hands, ensuring that you don't turn your back on the interviewers.
Stand by the door, say "Excuse me," and bow slightly.
Stand next to the chair and, when told to sit, say "Excuse me" and take a seat.
When sitting, it looks neater if your back is not against the chair.
Men should sit like this, and women should sit like this.
Tips on Speaking:
When speaking, make eye contact with the other person.
When listening, nod or give affirmative responses like "Yes" or "I see" to let the speaker know you are actively listening. Taking notes is also important.
Preparation Beforehand:
Start by thoroughly reading and understanding the company's website, where information about the desired qualities of employees, the company's philosophy, and the nature of the work can be found.
Since interview questions are usually predetermined, it's not just about preparing answers on paper but also practicing delivering them fluently.
Other Notes and Advice:
In Japan's job market, it's common not to pass the interview on the first attempt. However, don't give up. Keep trying, even dozens of times,
and you will eventually succeed. If you run into difficulties, consult your school teachers. We're rooting for your success!
How was it?
I was nervous.
It was difficult because I don't do this often.
TCJ provides courses for those who want to work in Japan. They teach you Business Japanese, how to write CV, job interview practice etc.
For more info, please check the description.